docs: add nomad docs (#467)
hetznercloud/csi-driver: docs/nomad/README.md

# HashiCorp Nomad Hetzner Cloud csi-driver

## Preconditions

- Nomad >= 1.4.x cluster installed and running (tested on Nomad version 1.5.x).
- The HCL resources are meant to be executed on a machine having nomad installed (with access to the Nomad API).

## Getting Started

1. Create a read+write API token in the [Hetzner Cloud Console](https://console.hetzner.cloud/).

2. Deploy CSI Controller

```hcl
# hcloud-csi-controller.hcl

job "hcloud-csi-controller" {
  datacenters = ["dc1"]
  namespace   = "default"

>   type        = "system"

Author: no, it shouldn't be a system job,this is a mistake

# HashiCorp Nomad Hetzner Cloud csi-driver

## Preconditions

- Nomad >= 1.4.x cluster installed and running (tested on Nomad version 1.5.x).
- The HCL resources are meant to be executed on a machine having nomad installed (with access to the Nomad API).

## Getting Started

### CSI Setup

1. Create a read+write API token in the [Hetzner Cloud Console](https://console.hetzner.cloud/).

2. Create a Nomad Variable for the HCLOUD token:

> [!NOTE]
> Consider using HashiCorp Vault for secrets management, see https://developer.hashicorp.com/nomad/docs/job-specification/template#vault-kv-api-v2

```sh
export HCLOUD_TOKEN="..."
nomad var put secrets/hcloud hcloud_token=$HCLOUD_TOKEN
```

> 3. Create a CSI Controller Job

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create a CSI Controller Job:
```

```hcl
# file: hcloud-csi-controller.hcl

job "hcloud-csi-controller" {
  datacenters = ["dc1"]
  namespace   = "default"
  type        = "service"

  group "controller" {

>     count = 2

Reviewer 2: Why are 2 controllers needed? 🤔

Author: The thinking behind this is, one thing we want to make sure that controller is always available. If the node goes down the controller is running on, a volume won't be able to be migrated, right?

That is why we defined 2 of the controllers to run and also defined:

```
    constraint {
      distinct_hosts = true
    }
```

To ensure, controller instances run on different nodes.

Reviewer: If having 2 controllers is a good idea (I'll let others judge if this is valid) in this documentation, maybe you should add a comment above the field with your explanation ? If one person already raised a question about this, maybe others will.

Reviewer 3: The csi-controller is a stateless gRPC service. There should be no issue running two of them, as long as the caller makes sure to not send duplicate requests (and even those should be handled properly). I do not know if Nomad utilizes multiple controllers.

---

If one deploys this to a single node Nomad cluster, will the Job show an error because only a single task could be created?

Author: > If having 2 controllers is a good idea (I'll let others judge if this is valid) in this documentation, maybe you should add a comment above the field with your explanation ? If one person already raised a question about this, maybe others will.

makes sense. 

We run this in prod and works as expected. I remember a "pressure" on our cluster when running only one instance of controller in "node down running csi controller" situation. 

> If one deploys this to a single node Nomad cluster, will the Job show an error because only a single task could be created?

I am not sure about this, I would say that it would work with a warning. However, single node clusters are considered experimental for testing. We refer to HashiCorp's "Best Practice for Production" with 3 master nodes. We should point that out in the doc.

    constraint {
      distinct_hosts = true
    }

    update {
      max_parallel     = 1
      canary           = 1
      min_healthy_time = "10s"
      healthy_deadline = "1m"
      auto_revert      = true
      auto_promote     = true
    }

    task "plugin" {
      driver = "docker"

      config {
        # Check version on https://hub.docker.com/r/hetznercloud/hcloud-csi-driver/tags
        image   = "hetznercloud/hcloud-csi-driver:v2.3.2"
        command = "bin/hcloud-csi-driver-controller"
      }

      env {
        CSI_ENDPOINT   = "unix://csi/csi.sock"
        ENABLE_METRICS = true
      }

      template {
        data        = <<EOH
HCLOUD_TOKEN="{{ with nomadVar "secrets/hcloud" }}{{ .hcloud_token }}{{ end }}"
EOH
        destination = "secrets/hcloud-token.env"
        env         = true
      }

      csi_plugin {
        id        = "csi.hetzner.cloud"
        type      = "controller"
        mount_dir = "/csi"
      }

      resources {
        cpu    = 100
        memory = 64
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> 4. Create a CSI Node Job

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create a CSI Node Job:
```

```hcl
# file: hcloud-csi-node.hcl
job "hcloud-csi-node" {
  datacenters = ["dc1"]
  namespace   = "default"
  type        = "system"

  group "node" {
    task "plugin" {
      driver = "docker"

      config {
        # Check version on https://hub.docker.com/r/hetznercloud/hcloud-csi-driver/tags
        image      = "hetznercloud/hcloud-csi-driver:v2.3.2"
        command    = "bin/hcloud-csi-driver-node"
        privileged = true
      }

      env {
        CSI_ENDPOINT   = "unix://csi/csi.sock"
        ENABLE_METRICS = true
      }

      template {
        data        = <<EOH
HCLOUD_TOKEN="{{ with nomadVar "secrets/hcloud" }}{{ .hcloud_token }}{{ end }}"
EOH
        destination = "secrets/hcloud-token.env"
        env         = true
      }

      csi_plugin {
        id        = "csi.hetzner.cloud"
        type      = "node"
        mount_dir = "/csi"
      }

      resources {
        cpu    = 100
        memory = 64
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> 5. Deploy Jobs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Deploy the Jobs:
```

```sh
nomad job run hcloud-csi-controller.hcl
nomad job run hcloud-csi-node.hcl

> # Check status

Reviewer: Could you extract this in an extra step, please? We want to make sure folks actually do the check, so having a dedicated step makes it more explicit.

e.g. `6. Check the plugin status:`

nomad plugin status
```

### Volumes Setup

1. Define a Volume

Create a file `db-vol.hcl` for the volume resource:

```
# file: vol.hcl

type      = "csi"
id        = "db-vol"
name      = "db-vol"
namespace = "default"
plugin_id = "csi.hetzner.cloud"

capability {
  access_mode     = "single-node-writer"
  attachment_mode = "file-system"
}

mount_options {
  fs_type     = "ext4"
  mount_flags = ["discard", "defaults"]
}
```

> 2. Create a Volume

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a Volume:
```

```sh
nomad volume create db-vol.hcl
```

> [!HINT]

> >  The hcloud cli is a convient way to verify if the volume was created: `hcloud volume list`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>  The hcloud cli provides a convient way to verify if the volume was created: `hcloud volume list`.
```

### Make use of the Volume

1. Create a Job definition

> In the following exmaple is shown, how we can mount the volume in a Docker Nomad job definition:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example describes how to mount the volume in a Docker Nomad job definition:
```

```hcl
# file: mariadb.nomad

job "mariadb" {
  datacenters = ["dc1"]
  namespace   = "default"
  type        = "service"

  group "mariadb" {
    network {
      port "mariadb" {
        to           = 3306
      }
    }

    volume "db-volume" {
      type            = "csi"
      read_only       = false
      source          = "db-vol"
      attachment_mode = "file-system"
      access_mode     = "single-node-writer"
      per_alloc       = false
    }

    task "mariadb" {
      driver = "docker"
      config {
        image = "mariadb:10.11"
        ports = [
          "mariadb",
        ]
      }

      volume_mount {
        volume      = "db-volume"
        destination = "/var/lib/mysql"
      }

      env {
        MARIADB_ROOT_PASSWORD = "<...>"
        MARIADB_DATABASE      = "<...>"
        MARIADB_USER          = "<...>"
        MARIADB_PASSWORD      = "<...>"
      }

      service {
        name = "db"
        port = "mariadb"
      }

      resources {
        cpu    = 300
        memory = 256
      }

    }
  }
}
```

> 2. Create the Job

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create the Job:
```

        data        = <<EOH
HCLOUD_TOKEN="{{ with nomadVar "secrets/hcloud" }}{{ .hcloud_token }}{{ end }}"
EOH
        destination = "${NOMAD_SECRETS_DIR}/hcloud-token.env"
        env         = true
      }

      csi_plugin {
        id        = "csi.hetzner.cloud"
        type      = "node"
        mount_dir = "/csi"
      }

      resources {
        cpu    = 100
        memory = 64
      }
    }
  }
}
```

5. Deploy the Jobs:

The following commands deploy the job resources created previously on your Nomad cluster:

```sh
nomad job run hcloud-csi-controller.hcl
nomad job run hcloud-csi-node.hcl
```

6. Verify the status:

To ensure the plugin is running and healthy, check the web UI on path `/ui/csi/plugins/csi.hetzner.cloud` or by using the CLI:

```sh
nomad plugin status
```

### Volumes Setup

1. Define a Volume:

Create a file `db-vol.hcl` for the volume resource:

```
# file: db-vol.hcl

type      = "csi"
id        = "db-vol"
name      = "db-vol"
namespace = "default"
plugin_id = "csi.hetzner.cloud"

capability {
  access_mode     = "single-node-writer"
  attachment_mode = "file-system"
}

mount_options {
  fs_type     = "ext4"
  mount_flags = ["discard", "defaults"]

> }

Reviewer 3: Can we add a note here that this will create the volume in the Hetzner Cloud Location where the server with the controller is running?

If another location is required, users will need to specify [topology_request](https://developer.hashicorp.com/nomad/docs/other-specifications/volume/topology_request) (not tested):

```hcl
topology_request {
  required {
   # Use your desired location name here
    topology { segments { "csi.hetzner.cloud/location" = "fsn1" } } 
  }
}
```

Author: Sure, let's add a note, I am also okay to add a topology request example (never had that use-case though), we should problaby also add a link to https://developer.hashicorp.com/nomad/docs/other-specifications/volume so users find specific docs to volume handling in nomad quicker.

### Make use of the Volume

1. Create a Job definition:

The following example describes how to mount the volume in a Docker Nomad job definition:

```hcl
# file: mariadb.nomad

job "mariadb" {
  datacenters = ["dc1"]
  namespace   = "default"
  type        = "service"

  group "mariadb" {
    network {
      port "mariadb" {
        to           = 3306
      }
    }

    volume "db-volume" {
      type            = "csi"
      read_only       = false
      source          = "db-vol"
      attachment_mode = "file-system"
      access_mode     = "single-node-writer"
      per_alloc       = false
    }

    task "mariadb" {
      driver = "docker"
      config {
        image = "mariadb:10.11"
        ports = [
          "mariadb",
        ]
      }

      volume_mount {
        volume      = "db-volume"
        destination = "/var/lib/mysql"
      }

      env {
        MARIADB_ROOT_PASSWORD = "<...>"
        MARIADB_DATABASE      = "<...>"
        MARIADB_USER          = "<...>"
        MARIADB_PASSWORD      = "<...>"
      }

      service {
        name = "db"
        port = "mariadb"

>       }

Author: good point, since Nomad has a "lightweight" native service discovery (https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/nomad-service-discovery), let's use this instead and add a note about consul.

>       }

Author: see 48a51c65aac71c5f231fd27c23873f50f1543f20

      resources {
        cpu    = 300
        memory = 256
      }

    }
  }
}
```

2. Create the Job:

```sh

> nomad job run mardiadb.nomad

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
nomad job run mariadb.nomad
```

Small typo, you also named all other files `.hcl`, can we make this consistent?
